Add guidance for running lesson pilot workshops (#734)
carpentries/docs.carpentries.org: topic_folders/lesson_development/lesson_pilots.md

## Lesson Pilot Workshops

### Purpose

Teaching a lesson for the first time is very rewarding

> but the experience of the Instructors and Learners also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but the experience of the Instructors and learners also
```

and feedback that can be used to polish content
and make the lesson more reusable by other Instructors
e.g. by recording accurate timings for episodes and exercises,
expanding Instructor Notes, etc.

#### Alpha and Beta Pilots

The lesson development process includes pilot workshops at
two different stages, which we refer to as _alpha_ and _beta_ pilots.
Alpha pilots are the first workshops where the lesson is taught,
almost always by some or all of the original developers of the lesson.

After the feedback from these alpha pilots has been used to improve
the lesson, it can enter the beta stage, where other Instructors -
who did not have a major part in the previous development of the lesson -
teach it and provide feedback.

For more information about these pilots,
and the requirements for piloting official Carpentries lessons,
see [the Lesson Life Cycle chapter of The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/the-lesson-life-cycle.html).

### Information for Lesson Developers

#### Finding Hosts for Beta Pilots

If you are developing a new official Carpentries lesson -
a lesson developed based on prior agreement with The Carpentries,

> intended to become another lesson/curriculum offered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and which is intended to become another lesson/curriculum offered
```

in centrally-organised workshops -
[the Curriculum Team](mailto:team@carpentries.org) will help you
find hosts and Instructors for pilot workshops.

If you are developing a lesson in The Carpentries Incubator,

> we encourage you to try to find hosts for pilot workshops yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can do this by putting out a call for hosts via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can recruit pilot hosts by putting out a call via
```

[the `discuss` TopicBox list](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups),
[the `general` channel on The Carpentries Slack workspace](https://carpentries.org/connect/),
[by publishing a post on our blog](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/guides/submit_blog_post.html),
and/or by any other communications channel that you think appropriate
(e.g. the mailing list of a specific community likely to be interested in the lesson topic).
You may find this
[template blog post](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z8QmxDIiew-p1d8aLzXa0vt0FLUHNtK3oS3tucyrRsI/edit?usp=sharing)
and/or this
[template email message](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hHnm-Ljb_o_rNd9bvQ83ilq40KoGoEfMPTSrFS4QOj8/edit?usp=sharing)
helpful starting points.
If after taking these steps,
you find that you need help finding hosts to pilot your lesson,
or if you have any questions about the lesson pilot process for
lessons in The Carpentries Incubator,
you can [contact incubator@carpentries.org](mailto:incubator@carpentries.org).

#### Collecting Feedback on the Lesson

> Feedback from learners will be a valuable source of information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feedback from learners will be a valuable source of information about
```

> and suggestions about how your lesson could be further improved after the pilot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and suggestions for how your lesson could be further improved after the pilot.
```

The standard Carpentries pre- and post-workshop surveys
do not support lesson pilots
so you will need to create your own surveys to send out before/after a pilot workshop.
Although surveys for pilot workshops will frequently include questions

> that are specific to the particular lesson being trialled,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that are specific to the particular lesson being piloted,
```

there are some standard feedback questions that can be asked after a pilot
to assess the design and flow of the lesson.
This [template post-pilot workshop survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1OGCQBotD2nOJkc7KpFZLhFfb3EBcxEDwHz_3p48qz3U/template/preview)
can be copied and adapted to suit the needs of your lesson,
and shared with learners in place of the standard post-workshop survey.

It is also important to gather information about the lesson
while it is being taught.
Check
[the Lesson Life Cycle chapter of The Carpentries Curriculum Development Handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/the-lesson-life-cycle.html#field-testing-alpha-stage)
for a list of things to take note of during the pilot workshop.

> We recommend assigning a specific person or people with responsibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend assigning a specific person or people
```

to keep track of these points, e.g. an Instructor or Helper.

### Information for Hosts

#### Recruiting Instructors for Beta Pilots

If you are hosting a pilot of a new official Carpentries lesson -
a lesson developed based on prior agreement with The Carpentries,

> intended to become another lesson/curriculum offered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and which is intended to become another lesson/curriculum offered
```

in centrally-organised workshops -
[the Curriculum Team](mailto:team@carpentries.org) will help you
find Instructors for pilot workshops.

The Carpentries is also keen to support the development and piloting
of lessons in The Carpentries Incubator.
If you are hosting a pilot of a lesson in the Incubator,
we ask that you **first** try to find Instructors for pilot workshops yourself.
Often, hosts are able to recruit certified Instructors from their local
community

> with relevant knowledge of the lesson topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with relevant knowledge of the lesson topic,
```

but in some cases this will not be possible.
If you wish to recruit Instructors for a pilot workshop,
try putting a call out on
[local/regional community mailing lists](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups),
any relevant channels on [The Carpentries Slack workspace](https://carpentries.org/connect/) (the lesson authors may be able to direct you to these),
and/or [by publishing a post on our blog](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/guides/submit_blog_post.html).

> Please do not post calls for Instructors to the general channel on Slack, or the discuss and instructors lists on TopicBox: any messages to recruit Instructors will be removed from those channels. If after taking these steps, you find that you need help finding Instructors for your lesson pilot, you can [contact incubator@carpentries.org](mailto:incubator@carpentries.org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please do not post calls for Instructors to the general or instructors channel on Slack, or the discuss and instructors lists on TopicBox: any messages to recruit Instructors will be removed from those channels. If after taking these steps, you find that you need help finding Instructors for your lesson pilot, you can [contact incubator@carpentries.org](mailto:incubator@carpentries.org)
```

for assistance.

#### Creating a Pilot Workshop Webpage

[The Carpentries workshop webpage template](https://github.com/carpentries/workshop-template)
supports the creation of webpages for pilot workshops.
See [the Customisation page of the template documentation](https://carpentries.github.io/workshop-template/customization/#configuration-file-_configyml)

> for details of how to configure the webpage for a pilot workshop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for instructions on how to configure the webpage for a pilot workshop.
```

> The Carpentries does not currently track pilot workshops in the same

Reviewer: We do track pilots for official-track lessons. They should be reported as self-organized workshops using the standard form. (Sher and I will work together to make sure the curriculum that is being piloted gets added to the form before pilots start.)

Author: Thanks for catching that inaccuracy, @ErinBecker. I have corrected in a0f2a56
